Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the cryptoverse.
Today we're going to talk about Bitcoin
and how it has finally arrived at its
200 day moving average. If you guys like
the content, make sure you subscribe to
the channel, give the video a thumbs up,
and also check out the sale on into the
cryptoverse premium at into the
cryptoverse.com.
Let's go ahead and jump in. I did want
to say that uh my wife did give birth to
our fifth child uh fairly recently. So
if there's if the video frequency isn't
as much for a little while, at least you
know why. Um but anyways, Bitcoin has
arrived at the 200 day moving average.
Uh more or less. I guess technically it
it hasn't quite hit it yet, but it's
pretty close to it. the 200 day moving
average is, you know, just a few hundred
dollars higher than the current price or
the current price that it was earlier
today. And honestly, now the 200 day
moving average is actually lower than
where we wicked up to previously. Now,
the 200 day moving average is a level
that has come into play in several bare
markets in the past. Um, came into play
in uh 2022. You can see Bitcoin rallied
up to the 200 day moving average. uh it
came into play in 2018 where Bitcoin
also rallied up to the 200 day moving
average more than once actually. Um and
even in 2014, but I will say in 2014
when we rallied to the 200 day, we
actually got slightly above it. So I I
don't want to pretend like the 200 day
moving average is is something that can
never be overtaken in midterm years
because well, we saw it briefly
overtaken in in 2014. Um but it is to
show that Bitcoin did not really make it
that much past it even even back then.
The biggest counterpoint to sort of this
view of the 200 day moving average is in
2019 which there is still some relevance
uh for discussion. Bitcoin was able to
get back past it after getting rejected
from it initially. And so what's
difficult, you know, what's been
difficult for this cycle is trying to
figure out, all right, is this more like
2019 or is it more like 2018? In 2018,
there's certainly a lot of similarities
between now and what happened back then.
Uh, for instance, Bitcoin found a low in
February, right? It found a low there
and you can see found a low in February
in 2022. And then after that,
sorry, after the low in February, we
found a higher low in April, a higher
low in April, and then a rally up to the
200 day moving average in May. So, in
that way, it's actually really similar
to how it played out in 2018. So
similar, in fact, that the price that
Bitcoin bounced off of is just 10x
higher today than it was back then. The
first low being at around 6K back then
and then the higher low at around 6,400.
This time you had your low at around 60K
and then that higher low was around 64
65,000. So really similar in that
regard.
Now the 2019 view is if you just take
the top here and say all right well
Bitcoin topped two months before
quantitative tightening ended in October
2025. it topped and then QT ended in
December. In 2019, Bitcoin topped and
then two months later in so Bitcoin
topped in June and then QT ended in
August. Um, and if you overlay sort of
this bare market with that one in 2019,
it it also kind of lines up, right?
So, I mean, it is difficult honestly
predicting exactly where the trend kind
of finds that high and and starts going
back the other way. And I know a lot of
people are like, well, you know, you you
should uh sort of pick number, but
it really is hard to know exactly. I
mean, I've seen other people throw out
numbers. Um, and I don't know. I mean, I
don't I don't know exactly where, but my
guess is that we will see Bitcoin show
weakness as the year goes on. In 2014,
when we got above the 200 day moving
average, um, it actually lasted for a
little while, right? like it it you know
we were above it we got rejected we got
back back above it again we were still
above it for a couple of weeks more than
a couple of weeks I think before going
back down and back then Bitcoin didn't
find its lower high until June but what
you'll notice is that the next low we
had a February low and an April low that
April low was a lower low the next low
was also October
in 2022 or sorry in 2018
you had a low in February low in April
It was a higher low in April, a low in
June, and then the bottom fell out in
Q4,
which had a low in June. In 2022, we had
a low in June as well. So,
I guess, you know, you you could see
this thing persists. But when you look
at at the monthly hyenashi candles that
we've we've covered previously,
one of the things to look at here is
we're we're too early in the month of
May to know how this is going to unfold.
But a lot of times if you look at the
last two bare markets, this thing just
stayed red and once it turned green, the
bare market was over. The two other
examples of bare markets being
interrupted by brief monthly hyenashi
green candles were in 2014 and in 2019
2020. You see that? You see how you had
sort of a an initial downturn, a brief
surge back up before the bare market
continued. So, I guess I still
unfortunately have the bear goggles on
um and and think that it most likely
will play out like we've seen in prior
bare markets and that the price will
likely eventually roll over and head
back down. It's hard to know the exact
timing of it. Um, but even in 2014, you
know, if you go with the 20, if you go
with the 2014 view,
if you look at 2026 compared to 2014,
we've already rallied up to the level
that it reached in 2014. It just took a
little bit longer in the year to get it
to to sort of reach that level. So, and
back then when we got up to those
levels, we kind of stayed there for a
while, right? We rallied up, sold off,
and then rallied back up and eventually
came lower. And this would have been
sort of representative of the October
low. So
we're at the 200 day moving average.
It's a, you know, it is certainly a
barrier. Uh it has been a barrier in
prior bare markets with the exception of
2014 and in 2019. But in both cases,
Bitcoin's surge above the 200 day was
relatively short-lived. Okay? like in um
in what was it in 2014 we got above the
200 day moving average but it didn't
really hold it didn't really last that
long um at least on the first attempt
you can see we um got above it right
here in June stayed above it for about a
week off and on sold off into mid June
got back above it into July for a few
weeks and then we sold off into October
And then in 2019, you know, we got above
it in January and then we were back
below it again by February and March,
right? So, a couple months later. Now, I
know the 2020 pandemic is not really uh
something we should use. And I wouldn't
say that I am. What I am saying is that
what you'll notice back then is that it
did not take out the prior high and
Bitcoin eventually rolled over. You
could have a scenario where, you know,
you if if this is the rally we're in
where Bitcoin stalls out, but maybe it
doesn't just immediately get this
massive capitulation, but just continues
on sort of the methodical bare market.
You could argue the reason it just
capitulated immediately was because the
recession was no longer deniable, right?
Like the unemployment rate spiked to
15%. It's not like we could pretend like
we weren't in a recession back then. Um
and so when the market when when all
sort of hope of hope and optimism is
gone, the market no longer climbs the
wall of worry and and then you
immediately price in the recession once
it was it was obvious where the labor
market was at the time. So this is a
critical level for Bitcoin at the 200
day moving average. Um again in in a lot
of bare markets the 200 day moving
average acts as resistance and in 2014
and 2019 where Bitcoin got through it,
it it was only relatively shortlived,
right? in. We didn't really go that much
higher before the market then turned
back around. But that's what I'll leave
you with right now. I mean, I still have
the bear goggles on unfortunately. Um,
and we'll see. We'll see where things
head up, you know, head to later this
year. I would expect
the price to eventually roll over and
head back down. I don't really know what
the narrative is going to be to
accompany it. Could be inflation, could
be anything. Uh, we'll see what it is
when if and when it happens. If you guys
like the content, make sure you
subscribe to the channel, give the video
a thumbs up, and check out the sale on
Into the Cryptoverse Premium at into the
cryptoverse.com.
I'll see you guys next time.